Add initial content and section structure (#1)
konveyor/crane-documentation: content/_index.md

---
title: "Overview"
date: 2021-11-15T15:06:19-05:00
draft: false
---

# What is crane?

> Crane is a tool that helps application owners migrate workloads between 4.x clusters. It is a tool that is divided in four parts.

Reviewer: I'm not sure that "between 4.x clusters" is completely accurate. The source could be a 3.x cluster or even a non-openshift cluster. Saying "to 4.x clusters" may be more accurate, although that might imply to some users that the source can't be 4.x -- @eriknelson what do you think?

Reviewer 2: +1, @JaydipGabani I would recommend "to migrate kubernetes workloads and their state between clusters"

Reviewer 3: @sseago I agree. It should say, "Crane helps you move your applications between Kubernetes clusters, including their state, while also helping you remove environment-specific configuration and automating application deployments along the way." or something like that. Obviously with better grammar. :)

> - [Crane-cli](https://github.com/konveyor/crane): This is the cli(front end) of the process which allows user perform every action required.

Reviewer: So the cli's name is just "crane". Maybe we should just use "crane" in the link name instead of "Crane-cli" -- the description makes it clear that it's a cli.

> - [Crane-lib](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-lib): This is the brains behind crane actions and is responsible for transforming resources.

Reviewer: "crane-lib" (no caps)

> - [Crane-plugin-openshift](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-plugin-openshift): These are the custom plugins that can be added as an extension to the `transform` command to have additional actions as per need while transforming resources. 

Reviewer: "crane-plugin-openshift"

Reviewer: s/These are the custom plugins/This is a custom plugin/

> - [Crane-plugins](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-plugins): This is the central source of truth from where any plugins can be added to the migration process with the help of plugin-manager.

Reviewer: "crane-plugins"

Reviewer: Maybe a final entry
```
- Additional plugins will be added as new "crane-plugin-<plugin>" repos
```

---
title: "Overview"
date: 2021-11-16T12:08:47-05:00
draft: false
---

# What is crane?

> Crane is a tool that helps application owners migrate kubernetes workloads and their state between clusters, remove environment-specific configuration and automate application deployments along the way. It is a tool that is divided in few parts.

Reviewer: "...divided into a few parts"

> Crane is a tool that helps application owners migrate kubernetes workloads and their state between clusters, remove environment-specific configuration and automate application deployments along the way. It is a tool that is divided into a few parts.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Crane is a tool that helps application owners migrate Kubernetes workloads and their state between clusters, remove environment-specific configuration and automate application deployments along the way. The work is spread among a few projects:
```

> - [crane](https://github.com/konveyor/crane): This is the cli(front end) of the process which allows user perform every action required.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [crane](https://github.com/konveyor/crane): The command line tool that brings the ability to migrate applications to the terminal.
```

- [crane-lib](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-lib): This is the brains behind crane actions and is responsible for transforming resources.

> - [crane-plugin-openshift](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-plugin-openshift): This is a custom plugin that can be added as an extension to the `transform` command to have additional actions as per need while transforming resources. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [crane-plugin-openshift](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-plugin-openshift): Plugin specifically tailored to managing the migration of OpenShift workloads. Also serves as an example of codifying knowledge/best-practices in a repeatable way. 
```

> - [crane-plugins](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-plugins): This is the central source of truth from where any plugins can be added to the migration process with the help of plugin-manager.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [crane-plugins](https://github.com/konveyor/crane-plugins): Collection of plugins from the konveyor community based on our experience with Kube migrations.
```

- Additional plugins will be added as new "crane-plugin-<plugin>" repos

> > Cli commands and plugins are explained in depth in later part of the document, visit Usage to understand how crane works.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**NOTE**:
- Additional plugins will be added as new "crane-plugin-<plugin>" repos
- CLI commands and plugins are explained in depth in later part of the document, visit Usage to understand how crane works.
```

With respect to cli vs Cli vs CLI. My understanding from around (https://github.com/cli/cli for example), is that we should use CLI throughout or "command line tool".

# Why crane is needed?

> Crane is a pipelined tool unlike `MTC` where now using crane user can intervene after each step (i.e `export` and `transform`) to make sure that the process done up till current step is valid and useful for the migration. Another advantage of `crane` tool is that it provides flexibility to add plugins (custom logic to the pipeline to cater a specific need) while transforming resources for destination cluster.

Reviewer 4: I think this is where the elevator pitch that I've heard @eriknelson and @jwmatthews talk about should go. This is a good summary of what crane does, I think it needs a little less engineer and a little more car salesman :sunglasses:.

Reviewer 2: I've asked for help from @mberube99 and the marketing team for contents here. In an effort to get the site seeded with a basic structure, I'd advocate for us to merge as is and we can update with a refinement.

> Crane is a pipelined tool unlike `MTC` where now using crane user can intervene after each step (i.e `export` and `transform`) to make sure that the process done up till current step is valid and useful for the migration. Another advantage of `crane` tool is that it provides flexibility to add plugins (custom logic to the pipeline to cater a specific need) while transforming resources for destination cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Crane is the product of our team distilling several years of experience performing
large-scale production Kubernetes migrations. These operations are large, complex,
error-prone, and usually must be peformed under a limited window of time. Because
of that challenge, its paramount that a migration tool be designed with transparency
and ease-of-diagnostics in mind. Crane is designed to drive a migration via a
pipeline of non-destructive tasks that dump their results to disk so the operation
can be easily audited and versioned without ever impacting live workloads.
The tasks are [idempotent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence), meaning
they can be run repeatedly and will output consistent results given the same
inputs without side-effects on the system at large.
```
